---
slug: mshot
title: (MY NOTE) Multishot Human Pose
authors: seulgi
tags: [Research Note, SMPL, 3D Human Pose, Pose Estimation, PHALP, MultiShot, OpenPose]
---

I'm trying to extract SMPL parameters on video in a multishot setting. To this end, tracklets are necessary.


### Steps: PHALP setup -> Multishot Human Pose extraction -> select data for training NeRF.


# 1. PHALP setup

### Summary of PHALP
- "Tracking People by Predicting 3D Appearance, Location & Pose" (CVPR 2022)
- Input: monocular video
- Task: Tracking people
- Method
  - lift people in a frame to 3D (3D pose of human, human location in 3D space, 3D appearance)
  - track a person: collect 3D observations over time in a tracklet representation -> build temporal model
    - model predict the **future state of a tracklet including 3d location, pose, appearance**
    - for the future frame, calculate similarity between pred state of tracklet and single frame observations
  - Association: simple Hungarian matching
- Output: *.pkl file (input for the next step, multishot human pose extraction)
- project page: [PHALP project](http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~jathushan/PHALP/)


### Installation
**Tips**
- about branch
  - master
    - pros: compatible to Mshot (CVPR22), relatively easy to install
    - cons: out-dated, hard-coded
  - v1.1
    - pros: fancy code and demos
    - cons: OpenGL and OSMesa would be a little bit tricky, not compatible to Mshot repo.
      - 1. output *.pkl file should be slightly changed
      - 2. this demo code doesn't generate instance segmentation mask per person, which is necessary to Mshot preprocessing.
- My settings
  - docker container / without conda
  - off-screen
    - Pyrenderer and OpenGL may cause problems, you need to choose EGL or OSMesa
    - I build OSMesa and use PyOpenGL + OSMesa combination. (check 'Failure Logs...' under)
  - works on PHALP master and v1.1 branches, and also work for Mshot.
  - Here is pip list output of my environment. [req.txt](https://github.com/sghong977/sghong977.github.io/files/11197975/req.txt)


<details>
<summary> Failure Logs... (skip this) </summary>

Logs
- follow this [PHALP](https://github.com/brjathu/PHALP#installation)
- it takes quite a time to solve environment in conda...
- "('Connection broken: OSError("(104, \'ECONNRESET\')")', OSError("(104, 'ECONNRESET')"))" error
- I'm using docker container
  - to install git+http, 'apt-get install git'
  - pycocotools error: [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72611914/error-could-not-build-wheels-for-pycocotools-which-is-required-to-install-pypr)
- torch.ao is added on 1.10

  
I tried setting an environment without conda, but failed. issues while installing PHALP:
- pip install pyrootutils submitit gdown dill colordict scenedetect pytube
- pip install scikit-learn==0.22.2
- OpenGL: ssh env (without display)
  - install OSMesa [OSMesa doc](https://pyrender.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install/index.html#installmesa)
  - apt-get install libexpat1-dev
- encountered on PosixPath ~~~ error but I couldn't handle it

</details>


---

# 2. OpenPose
### Settings
- docker image from the hub: 'd0ckaaa/openpose'
- execute make commands to install
- download pretrained opencv models by get models script.

---

# 3. multishot human pose setup
### Settings
- follow this [multishot](https://github.com/geopavlakos/multishot#installation-instructions)
- I use the same docker as the previous one.
- Notes
  - use exactly the same version of smplx (if not, it may cause error)
  - no need to use torch 1.5.
  - change environ variables: PYOPENGL_PLATFORM' egl → osmesa
  - expand docker's shared memory size to 2GB
- Data
  - download mshot_data from github official Mshot page (approximately 1GB)
  - download smpl neutral pkl and gmm08 on the official smplify webpage and move to the correct location

### Pre-processing
- *.pkl → *.npz
- output contains information for a specific person (create separately)
- these are the initial value of optimization step.


### Optimization
- optimize the SMPL parameters using multishot loss



<details>
<summary> Memo </summary>
  

### Notes.
- To extract SMPL by multishot human pose, tracking and identification are needed.
- What about the other SMPL algorithms? SMPL extraction models like ROMP, VIBE...
  - Do they use 2D keypoints?
  - Regression or optimized based?
  - How are they inputs like? sequence or only an image? should be cropped? do they work on multiple people?
  - VIBE: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.05656.pdf
  - 


</details>
