---
slug: trainE2FGVI
title: Reproduce E2FGVI
authors: seulgi
tags: [Research Note, Video Inpainting]
---

Currently I'm improving a object removal pipeline. Since new year came, estimating the time and device cost is crucial to build a intricate plan for rolling a ball successfully!
So, in this post, it would be a super easy task because only thing I need now is just reproducing E2FGVI to measure cost.
But I don't wanna repetatively seeking on the information I need tho... That's the reason why I write this.

## Task
- **Goal**
  - train E2FGVI for the furter works
  - I need to measure the training costs like time or GPU amount

## Steps
**1. Preparation **
The official E2FGVI model is trained on Youtube-VOS only, following the official dataset splits.
Sign up to CodaLab and download the dataset. It takes time because of the size, approximately 50GB.

### Youtube VOS?
For video inpainting task, Youtube-VOS 2018 is widely-used dataset.
[Youtube VOS link](https://youtube-vos.org/dataset/vos/)

- Training: 3471 videos with dense (6 fps) object annotations, 65 categories and 5945 unique object instances.
- Validation: 474 videos, 65 training (seen) categories, 26 unseen categories and 894 unique object instances.
- Test: 508 videos, 65 training (seen) categories, 29 unseen categories and 915 unique object instances.

What does it mean by 'categories' and 'unique object instance'?
I didn't know that because the papers only reports average performance for every instances

Original source of this dataset Youtube-8M which is a video classification dataset.
The authors selected some categories get the videos from Youtube8M.
- animals (e.g. ant, eagle, goldfish, person)
- vehicles (e.g. airplane, bicycle, boat, sedan)
- accessories (e.g. eyeglass, hat, bag)
- - common objects (e.g. potted plant, knife, sign, umbrella)
- humans in various activities (e.g. tennis, skateboarding, motorcycling, surfing).


### VOST
- What is it? new dataset released by Youtube-VOS community, since ICCV 2023 challenge
- Task: Video object segmentation, on more challenging properties like dramatic changing
[link](https://www.vostdataset.org/)
